I know it gets better he's a missing FBI
agent that's a huge [ __ ] mistake
dollars oh okay Oh what's up everybody
Greg and Ryan here again and we're doing
a breakdown for Twin Peaks return
episode 13
now before we get started make sure to
hit that subscribe button there's some
other great things on this channel
including breakdown of Game of Thrones
preacher and Rick and Morty all right so
for this episode I felt the main theme
was really about the relationships of
the original Twin Peaks cast if you were
fan of the original cast and you're
trying to figure out where the hell are
these people this one was really for you
there was Ed and Norma's Shelly and her
daughter that keep seeing with Nadine
and Jacobi Audrey and Charlie and Sarah
Palmer with her vodka companions that
student Sarah Palmer to where it's like
looping the boxing match repetition of
boxing max you can't tell if it's
something going on in Twin Peaks or if
it's just Sarah Palin or herself just
having a moment where she's just like
doesn't care I'd like to keep on
repeating and that sort of reference
again to like old boxing like similar to
like Bushnell Mullins
like little little things in there the
rabbit's by the television and what
we're debating is may be Garban bozo
sitting there on the table any time
there's something yellow and exclude
automatically everyone's like garland
boda-bodas
hey you know what though I think that's
fair because that they seemed of
suffering and green and it's like the
people almost all the time who are
eating it whether it's actually creamed
corn or whatever are people who are
suffering we saw that with Ed at the end
we see it with Sarah Palmer and I'm sure
there's something dark with Chad from
the few episodes back
so we're past the two-thirds mark in the
season which means there's not a lot
left there's only five more after part
13 and depressed already and you know
what that also means is that for
of the season it's been dougie Joan and
very sadly there were two things that
happen in this episode that pushed the
possibility of getting Dale Cooper back
a little bit further away
one was the throwing away of the
fingerprints report by the Fusco's who
just seems like they were doing good
police work back in part 9 but no they
blew it and then of course the motion
for norma to change her famous pie
recipe which is one of the top things
people have been thinking would bring
Dale Cooper back unfortunately no but
that means that it's also probably a
good idea for us to get into our
favorite segment our weekly check-in
with Joey Jones let's do that this
episode starts off with an amazing
Mitchum dougie
Andy's conga line where Anthony figures
out that he's truly screwed I think that
might have been the best opening to an
episode all season it's like it's fun
it's celebratory is almost the part
warming I love it twin peaks' e-tail oh
yeah candy and the gang come bearing
gifts from bush no Mowen's in an awesome
scene that's capped off with Mullins and
Dougie receiving new cars
from there Anthony runs into some Duncan
Todd allied dirty cops which one of
them's played by Deerhunter and The Thin
Red Line star John Savage apparently
Anthony is looking for some poison once
again
the planning set has gone into the
assassination attempts are comically
stupid at every phase Anthony's going to
take judges to the stairwell somewhere
and push him down the stairs and that's
it it's the end of it that's good the
next day Anthony takes dougie out for
some coffee with the intention to
finally get rid of Todd's problems by
spiking the coffee with poison of course
this plan fails when dougie is
transfixed on Anthony's dandruff gross
somehow Anthony gets the feeling that
Doug is on to him and he can't take it
anymore
this is capped off with Anthony agreeing
to testify against Duncan Todd in court
now we'll see if it actually goes that
far Duncan Todd may just have fogarty
Todd take care of Anthony right I don't
really see like a Winkie courtroom drama
fitting into the last five parts as
they're been off spin-off I do want to
add though that Tom Sizemore is freaking
great in this episode like the whole
time I think we've been sort of thing
like what's he doing here doing here and
he brings it in he his meltdown is
delicious cookies I love it thank good
it's been a little while but after a few
episodes without him we finally returned
to a solid dose of mr. C first off we're
in western Montana which means mr. C is
drawing ever closer to 20 the sequence
takes place in a large empty warehouse
recalling Reservoir Dogs that belong to
some sort of a narco syndicated gang
whose hierarchy is determined by arm
wrestling here Lynch's absurdist style
is in full effect there are a ton of
gang members yet there is nothing else
but space there's no product or weapons
no stolen goods or large quantities of
cash the tropes of organized crime this
could easily be Lynch continuing to toy
with the professional inadequacy of his
criminals of course they're none of
those things because they are completely
incompetent what does that account even
need to account for DNA DNA money No
[Music]
in the warehouse mr. C is confronted by
a horde of criminals that inform him
that he needs to win in a one round
winner-take-all armwrestling match with
the group's strongest arm wrestler
failure would spell death for Cooper and
a win means he gets ready the match
itself is bizarre as mr. C toys with his
opponent metronomic Lee returning to
starting positions before progressing
with the match which culminates with a
brutalized dead body yeah I thought that
guy's arms gonna fly will [ __ ] right off
like in the fly my didn't remember yet
another almost Cronenberg's reference
yeah but I thought more over the top
machine except again recalling Reservoir
Dogs the scene concludes with Cooper
interrogating rave for information we
learned a few things here Rey was given
the LK ring to put on Cooper after he
was dead he gives mr. C the coordinates
from Hastings secretary that he's been
looking for tells him that Phillip
Jeffries is at the Dutchman and that
they wants something's inside Cooper
obviously I think Rey is talking about
they wanting Bob which has been alluded
to in my previous conversations but
didn't this is tying Phillip Jeffries
closer to the Black Lodge and the
question is what is the separation
between the Black Lodge and the woodsman
who are clearly backing Bob where Cooper
again we have to address the fact that
Richards was also in this scene which
seems to be a look of recognition on his
face I mean there's something there well
might not be a father-son thing but
there is something
speaking of references to Tarantino and
Reservoir Dogs there's also a scene
where Chantel and Hutch are driving
through Utah and they're having this
like perfectly you know Tarantino
Espinel hitman conversation about
Mormons and I actually really like that
but we're getting in as part of the
series is that Frost and Lynch are
incorporating their appreciation of
Tarantino into their American Gothic
style it's double nd not a quick yet
charming scene we get Nadine and Jacoby
meeting for the first time apparently in
seven years yeah this was a scene those
men
those drapes are completely hi this is
my tribute to you doctor in that scene
was so goddamn adorable to me I mean
just the blocking itself you have the
way the three such as silently feed back
and forth you get the reflections of
everybody and the life it's kind of
awesome I don't know if you pending boom
in the background there but it's really
really cool
I think it might be impending doom that
shovels going to have to get used on
somebody at some point check off shovel
check out shovel something else though
that I'd like to point out is that you
know we do see we'll talk about they get
a little bit later but you know Nadine
and Big Ed were married there's
definitely a little spark between Nadine
and dr. Jacoby and we're not actually
totally sure what's going on it's
possible she got back together with Mike
so there could be like a Nadine love
triangle quadrangle thing going on here
hopefully this isn't the only payoff we
get for Jacobean ad but it could be but
it's so sweet nice I'm okay with that
this is the last time you see those two
and let's hope it stays sweet and nice
this is the water and this is so well
moving on last week we got a bunch of
comments from you guys on YouTube and
Twitter about the current state of
Audrey Horne cools Caroline on the
youtube comment said I read somewhere
that Audrey is actually in a mental
institution resulting from injuries
sustained in the explosion evil coupe
raping her and Charlie is actually her
doctor and that's why she can't slash
won't go to the road has on her own the
contract they have is her
institutionalization might also explain
why Ben never talked about her and why
the cops didn't contact her about all
Richards activities I don't know it kind
of works now are you going to stop
playing games or do I have to end your
story to Jenna
you had my curiosity now you have my
attention it's safe to say that
something really strange is going on in
that office Audrey's frightened
hysterical demeanor and the feeling that
it looks like Charlie's trying to keep
Audrey in that room it's really tough to
say it's all in her head and that she's
still in a coma because she talks about
Billy we know that there's a Billy
missing out there I don't totally
subscribe to the therapists theory we
talked about how it seemed like you know
people at least after the previous
episode were just trying to rationalize
what they didn't want to believe Mike
that true about Audrey Horne that she's
married to this guy and it's a miserable
marriage you want to believe anything
else than the story we got right now and
I think that actually this scene in part
13 actually gets weird enough that it
makes the therapists theories seem too
normal
and now it could be on the same thing
she could be you know trapped in another
space-time you know her she doesn't know
where the Roadhouse's seems weird and
almost everything that's said is a
little bit confusing George Fitzhugh and
the YouTube comments said maybe Audrey
is trapped in her own version of the
Black Lodge sure I mean could be there's
definitely something that we don't have
yet in part 13 the double are brought
more disturbance to us than the comfort
of its cherry pie and coffee but before
we get too disconcerted let's welcome
back Big Ed Hurley to the series Big Ed
is presumably the former husband of
Nadine early and high school sweethearts
and Norma Jennings season two left us
with Nadine getting back together with
it but it's clear that 25 years later
there are still deep feelings between
him and Norma after a brief imposition
by Bobby Briggs a further imposition
brings a businessman named Walter to
Norma's makeshift office here we learn
that the double r has been sold out as a
franchise and now has several locations
all of which have inferior but more
profitable hi Walter pushes Norma to
tweak her famous recipe and to rename
the diner with her name it's clear that
this is not the conversation she wanted
to have Norma you're a real artist but
love doesn't always turn a profit the
capper report is that Walter asks her
out to dinner and she accepts
with
Richard Edie Hurley observing from the
background now I'm just expecting
advocate Walter Zack I think we could
see that coming he definitely does not
seem to be a Content human being he did
not look happy he looked very unhappy
not so easy that scene is so painful and
for everybody playing at home that
recipe change puts the chances of
getting Dale Cooper back on the same
note if you're playing at home and you
predicted a return of James Hurley well
[Music]
okay I don't mind saying I find that
song cringe-worthy and I'm not a big fan
of it I respect everybody who loves it
has their swing picks is Belgian but I
like I can't get behind it shout out to
read it though because every single week
people made the joke that they should
have James Hurley sing that song at the
Roadhouse as a joke no one ever expected
it oh and there was that great meme that
was
repurposing the song for the part eight
like theater with theater is senorita
Dido oh my god that was hilarious and
then he's also like making eyes at a
girl sitting at the table the same girl
who was what's bad a girl a table with
Shelley and Shelley says
[Music]
all right now let's get to some of the
Easter eggs and a few other like
comments and theories we have let me
talk about so we brought up everything
on dougie Jones but we didn't talk about
so many gems playset now the background
music that plays in that scene is
Tchaikovsky's Dance of the song from
Swan Lake
so it's two things really out of that
you have the first with the Russian
state wide news organizations that would
run this on loop during times of
political change of people or also very
winning leader dies until they figure
out what they want to do they would just
play Swan Lake on loop over and over and
over again so you know something bad is
going on if you're seeing this one way
also the original plot of Swan Lake is
about a woman who is captured by an evil
sorcerer her only means of escaping is
for a prince to declare his love for her
Siegfried the prince falls in love with
Odette but is tricked into declaring his
love for her double the black swamp when
Odette and Siegfried realized they've
been tricked they killed themselves the
plot was changed in the 1920s in this
new happy ending Siegfried battles the
sorcerer and went siegfried and indebt
live happily ever after that's actually
interesting though that the original
thought of Swan Lake actually has
something eerily in common with the
themes of 24 Returns doubles the other
thing worth bringing up in that scene is
the spotlight that's playing across the
playground well sonny jim is playing
that sort of is a reoccurring motif
throughout Twin Peaks about Bob and
usually when you see a spotlight that
means ain't good coming more
foreshadowing for Janie and sunny Jim
probably bad stuff in episode 12 we
missed a little Easter egg on the
monitor on Miriam hospital bed the
doctor's name is Henry Lawson Lawson is
a famous Australian writer and Bush poet
he's well known for his short stories
Lawson himself was a firm believer in
the merits of the sketch and then you
know something else from the from part
12 as well where there was something
that kind of went over my head but Ben
Horne is you know stealing guilt over
Richard killing our almost killing
Miriam tells Beverly that he wants to
pay for her hospital bills and he
completely forgets her last name which I
feel like is
with an in-joke to her last name being
different in the credits and being
different on the envelopes of chad's
bills I want you to arrange to pay for
all of Miriam I don't even remember her
last name but they'll they'll know who
she is they're really shooting the scene
and they're like okay please don't line
up just so you don't remember there's a
nice little shout out to the costume
designer Nancy tonight and the cool
slip-and-fall acclaim open on Anthony's
desk always talking to Duncan Todd on
the phone and finally this isn't an
easter egg but it needs to be brought up
again and the final scene big Ed's
reflection glitches out it's really mine
ooh yes but you almost can't see it it
doesn't happen for any apparent reason
either like there's nothing motivating
it there's a car going by the glitch
happens right about as the car is
passing and it doesn't seem like it's a
VFX fix for anything it doesn't look
like a continuity so this is intentional
it looks very intentional in fact I
think you can almost argue that big I
was working up notice that is reflection
glitched and that is totally possible
from the way he looks his reaction seems
like possible a disability and we've
seen you know several glitchy type
things throughout the show sometimes we
think it might just be a continuity or
or dealing with maybe a shortage of
coverage but this is an intentional you
got the windows on the airplane you got
the doorknob glitch also last week we
got a hand glitch right and actually you
know before we were really tracking
these things if you go way way back when
mr. Cooper kills so the safe thing for
head glitches as she falls to the ground
so there's something wrong also speaking
of things that can seem out of whack at
times is the timelines going on in the
show yeah
and for a long time I kind of thought
that the different timeline series
didn't quite make a lot of sense and in
this episode we got two specific
references to time one is when Bobby
Briggs comes into the Double R and he
says that they found the notes from
major Briggs that day and since we're in
part 13 that's back in part 9 that they
got the notes so those days lining up
definitely shows that there's some weird
things going on the time and then also
as another reference back to part 9 the
Fusco brothers lifted the fingerprints
in part 9 and finally get the results
back now but the specific time reference
there is that they also say that Cooper
broke out of prison two days ago
so in it's not so much this is creating
multiple timelines as it is tying a lot
of them closer together I feel like and
there's just a few hanging items that
seem like at a place like the popular
question about what's up with the
insurance man in the first episode yeah
we don't know Jeff yet they're going to
really pull this back on it and have a
whole thing where's most of this stuff
takes place with different timelines
we're not wealthy I don't think it's
going to be that crazy but I also don't
think that you can say between the
occurrences in Twin Peaks take place in
1/6 separate timeline and I think we're
actually seeing you know different
scenes taking place at different times
and then of course people think there's
something up with the road has but we're
going to go into that actually I think
after the season is over and try and
cover a feature that's a little bit more
comprehensive thanks everyone for
watching again let us know if we missed
anything in the comments section down
below and as always you can hit us up on
Twitter our handles are in the
description alright guys see you next
week